the United States is not in a recession
well it depends on where you look you
came here for the truth so let me unveil
that for you A recession no recession
some say it's actually a lot worse than
just your normal recession but it just
doesn't show up in the data now I'm
going to look at some things that I
believe are real indications of what's
Happening inside the economy things that
are near and dear to me here you can see
to begin Freight markets Freight is
something that really breaks the bank
sometimes when I've got to ship
thousands and thousands of
units within you know let's say 4,000
units there 3,000 units there 2,000
units there it really adds up when
they've increased their price by um you
know three times four times even five
times that actually does have a material
impact on profit margins and so we'll
see this bottoming out as they say we
don't really know and by the way there's
all different types of shipping all
right so we have like domestic let's
just think in the United States domestic
you got it on ships okay we have train
got that all right what about boat stuff
okay we can get stuff to come from uh
China
Shanghai to La Long Beach comes on a
boat gets off the boat it goes on a
truck all right then from that truck
let's say it goes to the Amazon
fulfillment center okay that's one
possible path now that's touching a lot
of hands on the way it had to make it
from a factory gets the port in China
sits on the dock for a while gets put in
to on that boat that boat might not even
go directly from Shanghai to LA Long
Beach maybe it's got to end up in Ningbo
maybe it's got to end up in Korea that
could happen as well all right it just
depends and so in these cases here I
think it's important that
we look at the available data that we do
have in order to determine what's going
on here you'll see Freight shipments and
expenditures continued to fall in
January according to the data um what
what I take from that basically if you
got less demand it's going to show up
here that's what we're noticing there's
less demand less shipments the prices
domestically are down from their Peak
but I have noticed that is not not too
cheap if I got to say so myself all
right and so this is one indication
people are shipping less stuff pric is
aside people are shipping less stuff the
volume isn't there and I didn't see it
there in Q4 I didn't have any delays
when it came to shipping ports or
servicing coming into the Fulfillment
centers no delays no
delays very unusual all years prior that
I've been in this business I had issues
in Q4 this time nothing so that tells
you something's going on now of course
small time but I bring you the data that
I have directly no no other YouTuber
does this okay they don't have direct
data unless they ly uh for the most part
we know there's a lot of liars out there
wholesale prices post biggest increase
in five months PPI shows inflation fight
is not over I don't know why there is a
period there um oh PPI shows I got you
look we are seeing PPI now what is that
producer price index that's the raw
materials think of that so if you've got
to produce something made of steel you
got all the input costs associated with
it if those prices have gone up well
then it's going to make its way into the
CPI the Comm uh Consumer Price Index and
so we worry about the producer price
index not because we shed a tier for the
manufacturers but that means you're just
going to pass it down passing it down
onto you of course you got to pay higher
prices for the same Goods that's why you
get the shrink inflation because they
know they don't want to see people don't
want to see higher prices then it gets
into a game with all these companies and
then they start doing this shrink
flation nonsense and you got a bag of
potato chips that only has one chip in
the bag it's kind of getting a little
awkward for some when I've seen how much
they've really shrink flated out of
these products yeah it's processed
products uh but we need some processed
products usually right it's not it's not
a bunch of lettuce okay we're going to
get a bunch of lettuce and yeah the
price can be affected by it but it's
usually those processed items but it
could be like not processed food
necessarily it could be some you need
for cleaning it could be something you
need for I don't know any any sort of
work that you're doing um these are all
going to make their way into the
consumer's lives meaning you can't buy
as much other stuff you can't go to the
restaurant as often you can't go to see
a show as often you can't go and get
what you would normally get you got to
get something else you know doing
Alternatives so wholesale prices are
where you got to be watching to see
they're foreshadowing into the consumer
prices warehousing demand is starting to
shrink sues are surging as company's
pair back storage capacity they built up
during 2020 so now we're seeing that
come back around and of course that is
of concern connecting with what we're
talking about a minute ago Japan loses
its Crown as the world's third largest
economy after it slips into a recession
to who though Germany Germany themselves
are doing so poorly so all of these
countries are are in a very bad scenario
Britain falls into recession with the
worst GDP performance in 2023 in years
same thing here the UK and Japan have
slumped into a recession while the US
keeps defying the gloomy expectations if
every everybody is sinking well then
people are just going to say I'm just
going to put my money with the us cuz at
least it's the US they're the Federal
Reserve they got the Federal Reserve
they'll just print to Infinity uh you
know I'm more worried about the UK and I
could say this honestly I'm more worried
about the UK than I am about the United
States does the United States have a
problem oh big time there's $34 trillion
in debt but I'm a lot more concerned
about what's going on in Europe and
Japan
than I am about the United States it's a
little bit more predictable let's say
Germany's Chamber of Commerce warns of
the heaviest slump in 20 years so you're
looking at all the major economies
that's what I'm saying here you know
we're not talking about some economy
that's like uh you know they got a
billion dollars worth of GDP no no no
I'm not talking about that I'm not
talking about Vanuatu I'm not talking
about Cook Islands economy okay I'm not
we're not talking about these very small
places obscure places we're talking
about the biggest economies in the world
and they are shrinking it tells you
something these are talking about the
layoffs that are
happening showing us employees laid off
companies laid off um there was a a
surge quite a bit in January we'll see
what happens okay um looking at
this of course companies May h high for
December than fire in January it could
be the case um but what has been
happening is that this has been
widespread and these companies are
getting rid of people a lot of companies
are getting rid of people even meta Mark
Zuckerberg was talking about this that
they're doing it okay China shipyards
are ready for a protracted War Americas
aren't while Chinese shipyards are
thriving and primed to build at wartime
rates US ship building is in disarray
and so this is an interesting one um
it's Wall Street Journal and you know I
just think it's
important to have a little bit of focus
beyond what is just the data that's
available to us and where is the money
being spent on it is a big concern to me
that so much money is being spent on War
when economies are shrinking that people
are suffering and that inflation is
truly out of control I worry that we are
barreling
towards a financial crisis of some sort
that will result in massive
inflation and of course a war whether it
is a hot War whether it's a cyber War
whether we lose that connection people
say yeah cut off China or cut off any
other country you don't understand how
intertwined these countries are not just
China and the US you want to wean off
your
dominance you know any one country you
don't want them to be dominant player in
your country um there's no question
about that you want a level of
self-sufficiency you want all these
things but you know we want to be
trading partners not enemies with any
country that isn't good for anybody you
don't want the enemies you want Partners
you want civil relationships just like
you would with the coworker right you
might not like the coworker the things
that they do and things but you say I'm
going to be civil because as soon as I
do something you know he's going to go
rrap me out to the boss you know that
there's going to be trouble I'm just
going to play nice I'm going to play
nice here at least on the surface level
right and that's what's going on I think
if you look at the situation with China
look at India look at Russia and you
know versus China maybe they don't see
eye to eye ideologically maybe they have
some issues but they do business hey
it's better that we just do business
together we can strengthen our
relationship together we'll figure out
those problems we we'll get to talking
about them we're not going to be
fighting and that's a good thing that's
a positive thing United States and
Vietnam being one very obvious example
if you want the latest and greatest
information you you can't get anywhere
else for two whole hours on Friday and
by the way that people they don't have
to be live it is a live Zoom call with a
small group of people every Friday I
also do it on Sunday too you don't have
to be live some people don't I I send
them the video after the recording after
if you're interested in that link in the
description the money gps.com
slive I hope to see you there hit that
thumbs up button on the way out doing so
helps us support the channel so I want
to thank you for that and of course I'll
see you tomorrow take care